Cherry-picked SHOW command PRs (#3080)
neo4j/docs-operations: modules/ROOT/pages/database-internals/show-and-terminate-transactions.adoc

:description: Information about the `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` and `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` commands.
:test-skip: true
= Show and terminate transactions

Transactions can be managed using the Cypher commands `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` and `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS`.
Multiple  `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` and `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` commands can be combined in the same query.
For general information about the `SHOW` command, see the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/cypher-manual/5/clauses/show/[Cypher Manual -> SHOW].

[[show-transactions]]
== Show transactions

The `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` command displays currently running transactions across the instance.
To track transactions on remote database aliases, run `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` while connected to the remote database alias.

> A user with the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/authentication-authorization/database-administration/#access-control-database-administration-transaction[`SHOW TRANSACTION`] privilege can view currently executing transactions, but only to the extent allowed by their granted permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user with the xref:authentication-authorization/database-administration.adoc#access-control-database-administration-transaction[`SHOW TRANSACTION`] privilege can view currently executing transactions, but only to the extent allowed by their granted permissions.
```

[source, cypher]
----
SHOW TRANSACTIONS YIELD *
----

.Show transactions by transactionId
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW TRANSACTIONS "neo4j-transaction-3"
----

.Filter `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` with `WHERE`
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW TRANSACTIONS YIELD database, currentQuery
WHERE currentQuery contains 'Mark'
----

.Return durations in milliseconds, microseconds, and seconds
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW TRANSACTIONS
YIELD transactionId, elapsedTime, cpuTime, waitTime, idleTime,
  currentQueryElapsedTime, currentQueryCpuTime, currentQueryWaitTime, currentQueryIdleTime
RETURN
  transactionId AS txId,
  elapsedTime.milliseconds AS elapsedTimeMillis,
  cpuTime.milliseconds AS cpuTimeMillis,
  waitTime.milliseconds AS waitTimeMillis,
  idleTime.seconds AS idleTimeSeconds,
  currentQueryElapsedTime.milliseconds AS currentQueryElapsedTimeMillis,
  currentQueryCpuTime.milliseconds AS currentQueryCpuTimeMillis,
  currentQueryWaitTime.microseconds AS currentQueryWaitTimeMicros,
  currentQueryIdleTime.seconds AS currentQueryIdleTimeSeconds
----

[[terminate-transactions]]
== Terminate transactions

The `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` command is used to terminate running transactions by their IDs.

> A user with the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/authentication-authorization/database-administration/#access-control-database-administration-transaction[`TERMINATE TRANSACTION`] privilege can terminate transactions, subject to the scope of their granted permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user with the xref:authentication-authorization/database-administration.adoc#access-control-database-administration-transaction[`TERMINATE TRANSACTION`] privilege can terminate transactions, subject to the scope of their granted permissions.
```

[options="header", width="100%", cols="1,5a"]
|===
| Action | Syntax

| Show transactions on the current server

a|
[source, syntax, role="noheader"]
----
SHOW TRANSACTION[S] [transaction-id[,...]]
[YIELD { * \| field[, ...] } [ORDER BY field[, ...]] [SKIP n] [LIMIT n]]
[WHERE expression]
[RETURN field[, ...] [ORDER BY field[, ...]] [SKIP n] [LIMIT n]]
----

[NOTE]
====
The format of `transaction-id` is `<databaseName>-transaction-<id>`.
Transaction IDs must be supplied as one or more comma-separated quoted `STRING` values, or as an expression resolving to a `STRING` or a `LIST<STRING>`.
====

|===

[NOTE]
====
When using the `RETURN` clause, the `YIELD` clause is mandatory and must not be omitted.
====

[[show-transactions-return-columns]]
=== Return columns

`SHOW TRANSACTIONS` returns the following columns:

.Show transactions output
[options="header", cols="3m,4a,2m,1a"]
|===
| Column | Description | Type | Default output

| database
| The name of the database the transaction is executing against.
| STRING
| {check-mark}

| transactionId
| The transaction ID.
| STRING
| {check-mark}

| currentQueryId

> | The ID of the query currently executing in this transaction, or `null` if no query is currently executing.

Reviewer 2: this was updated in Cypher 25, let's keep the Cypher 5 default here
```suggestion
| The ID of the query currently executing in this transaction, or an empty `STRING` if no query is currently executing.
```

| STRING
| {check-mark}

| connectionId
| The ID of the database connection attached to the transaction or an empty `STRING` for embedded connections.
| STRING
| {check-mark}

| clientAddress

> | The client address of the connection issuing the transaction or `null` if unavailable.

Reviewer 2: same here
```suggestion
| The client address of the connection issuing the transaction or an empty `STRING` if unavailable.
```

| STRING
| {check-mark}

| username
| The username of the user executing the transaction.
| STRING
| {check-mark}

| currentQuery

> | The query text of the query currently executing in this transaction, or `null` if no query is currently executing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The query text of the query currently executing in this transaction, or an empty `STRING` if no query is currently executing.
```

| STRING
| {check-mark}

| startTime
| The time at which the transaction was started.

> | ZONED DATETIME

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| STRING
```

| {check-mark}

| status
| The current status of the transaction (`Terminated`, `Blocked`, `Closing`, or `Running`).
| STRING
| {check-mark}

| elapsedTime
| The time that has elapsed since the transaction was started.
| DURATION
| {check-mark}

| outerTransactionId

> | The ID of this transaction's outer transaction, if such exists, otherwise `null`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The ID of this transaction's outer transaction, if such exists, otherwise an empty `STRING`.
```

For details, see the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/cypher-manual/5/subqueries/subqueries-in-transactions/[Cypher Manual -> `CALL` subqueries in transactions].
| STRING
|

| metaData
| Any metadata associated with the transaction, or an empty map if there is none.
| MAP
|

| parameters

> | A map containing all the parameters used by the query currently executing in this transaction, or `null` if no query is currently executing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| A map containing all the parameters used by the query currently executing in this transaction, or an empty map if no query is currently executing.
```

| MAP
|

| planner

> | The name of the Cypher planner used to plan the query currently executing in this transaction, or `null` if no query is currently executing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The name of the Cypher planner used to plan the query currently executing in this transaction, or an empty `STRING` if no query is currently executing.
```

For details, see the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/cypher-manual/5/query-tuning/#cypher-planner[Cypher Manual -> Cypher planner].
| STRING
|

| runtime

> | The name of the Cypher runtime used by the query currently executing in this transaction, or `null` if no query is currently executing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The name of the Cypher runtime used by the query currently executing in this transaction, or an empty `STRING` if no query is currently executing.
```

For details, see the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/cypher-manual/5/planning-and-tuning/runtimes/[Cypher Manual -> Cypher runtimes].
| STRING
|

| indexes

> | The indexes utilized by the query currently executing in this transaction, or `null` if no query is currently executing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The indexes utilized by the query currently executing in this transaction, or an empty list if no query is currently executing.
```

Only indexes evaluating static node labels and relationship types are shown in this column.
| LIST<MAP>
|

| currentQueryStartTime

> | The time at which the query currently executing in this transaction was started, or `null` if no query is currently executing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The time at which the query currently executing in this transaction was started, or an empty `STRING` if no query is currently executing.
```

> | ZONED DATETIME

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| STRING
```

|

| protocol
| The protocol used by the connection issuing the transaction.
This is not necessarily an internet protocol, such as _http_, etc., although it could be.
It might also be "embedded", for example, if this connection represents an embedded session.
| STRING
|

| requestUri
| The request URI used by the client connection issuing the transaction, or `null` if the URI is not available.
| STRING
|

| currentQueryStatus

> | The current status of the query currently executing in this transaction (`parsing`, `planning`, `planned`, `running`, or `waiting`), or `null` if no query is currently executing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The current status of the query currently executing in this transaction (`parsing`, `planning`, `planned`, `running`, or `waiting`), or an empty `STRING` if no query is currently executing.
```

| DURATION
|

| currentQueryAllocatedBytes
| The number of bytes allocated on the heap so far by the query currently executing in this transaction, or `null` if unavailable or no query is currently executing.
| INTEGER
|

| allocatedDirectBytes
| Amount of off-heap (native) memory allocated by the transaction in bytes or `null` if unavailable.
| INTEGER
|

| estimatedUsedHeapMemory
| The estimated amount of used heap memory allocated by the transaction in bytes or `null` if unavailable.
| INTEGER
|

| pageHits
| The total number of page cache hits that the transaction performed.
| INTEGER
|

| pageFaults
| The total number of page cache faults that the transaction performed.
| INTEGER
|

| currentQueryPageHits
| The total number of page cache hits that the query currently executing in this transaction performed.
| INTEGER
|

| currentQueryPageFaults
| The total number of page cache faults that the query currently executing in this transaction performed.
| INTEGER
|

| initializationStackTrace
| The initialization stacktrace for this transaction, or an empty `STRING` if unavailable.
| STRING
|

|===

> .`currentQueryProgress` map content

Reviewer 2: the `currentQueryProgress` column doesn't exist so we shouldn't list it's content...

=== Return columns

All columns are returned by default for `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS`.
As a result, appending `YIELD *` to `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` does not return any additional information.

`TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` returns the following columns:

.Terminate transactions output
[options="header", cols="4,6,2"]
|===
| Column | Description | Type

m| transactionId
a| The transaction ID.
m| STRING

m| username
a| The username of the user executing the transaction.
m| STRING

m| message
a| The result of the `TERMINATE TRANSACTION` command as applied to this transaction.
m| STRING

|===

[[terminate-transactions-examples]]
=== Examples

.Terminate transactions by transaction ID
[source, cypher]
----
TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS "neo4j-transaction-1","neo4j-transaction-2"
----

.Filter `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` with `WHERE`
[source, cypher]
----
TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS "neo4j-transaction-1","neo4j-transaction-2"
YIELD transactionId, message
WHERE message <> "Transaction terminated."
----

[NOTE]
====
Unlike the `SHOW` commands, `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` does not allow `WHERE` without `YIELD`.
====

[[combine-transaction-commands]]
== Combine transaction commands

> `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` can be combined with `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` to identify and terminate transactions in the same statement.

Reviewer 2: Previously we explicitly pointed out that it worked to combine these in difference to the other show commands, might still be nice to do 🤷 
```suggestion
In difference to other show commands, `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` can be combined with `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` to identify and terminate transactions in the same statement.
```

Multiple `SHOW` and `TERMINATE` transactions can be included in a single statement.

[NOTE]
====
When combining `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` and `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS`,  the `YIELD` and `RETURN` clauses are mandatory and must not be omitted.
`YIELD` must explicitly list the yielded columns.
`YIELD *` is not permitted.

> ====

Reviewer 2: we don't have the 
```
[NOTE]
====
At this point in time, no other cypher clauses are allowed to be combined with the transaction commands.
====
```
note that we had previously

Reviewer: Yes, it makes sense to add it.

Author: I will add something to this effect, but I don't think the "at this point in time" wording makes sense anymore, since, at this point in time, it is in fact allowed.

Reviewer 3: I think you discussed it a lot and agreed to highlight this limitation.
Personally, I would not do this because we try to focus on what users **can do**. But you all decided to keep this note, so you can say something like that: In Neo4j 5.x, you cannot combine the transaction commands with other Cypher clauses.

[[combine-transaction-commands]]
== Combine transaction commands

> `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` can be combined with `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` to identify and terminate transactions in the same statement (no other `SHOW` command can be combined with `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`SHOW TRANSACTIONS` can be combined with `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` to identify and terminate transactions in the same statement (no other `SHOW` command can be combined with either of the transaction commands).
```
since you can combine two `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` but you can't combine the other show commands with `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` (so it's not just `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS`)
